Instructor: So let's fix this problem
between router one and 2950-1.
So on the router, it's currently configured
to use a speed of 100.
So I'm going to set the speed to auto.
This router doesn't give me the option to set duplex.
So show run interface f0.
Speed is auto.
Show interface f0.
Speed is still half-duplex.
The router can't negotiate with the switch.
So once again, it moves
to a full back position of 10 meg half-duplex.
And this is what has caused a lot of problems in the past.
Because the one side such as the router
can't negotiate with the other side,
it simply moves to the lowest possible speed
which is half-duplex, 10 megabits per second
whereas the switch is using full duplex.
So on the switch show run interface f0/3.
Speed is 10.
Duplex is full.
Let's change that to speed,
or rather speed auto duplex.
Auto.
Show run interface f0/3.
No configuration, show interface f0/3.
Notice it is now using 100 meg, full-duplex.
And on the router we are getting 100 meg, full-duplex.
So that's a lot better.
The router and the switch have negotiated correctly
to use 100 megabits per second, full-duplex.
So can we ping router two?
Yes, we can.
Let's do a large ping.
Large datagram size.
Pings are being sent without any problems.
We are not seeing any late collisions at the moment
because the speed and duplex have negotiated properly.
This may indicate a problem somewhere else in the network,
but at the moment everything looks good.
Show interface f0.
Now we still see late collisions,
but that's because of the previous counters.
So I'm gonna clear the counters
and then do the command show interface f0 again.
And notice we see zero late collisions.
So when looking at your output,
be careful of the information.
Clear counters.
And we could specify a specific interface.
Allows us to clear the counters
on that interface so that we see fresh information.
So once again, if we ping 10.1.1.2.
1,000 pings.
Large packet size.
We're sending some traffic on this side.
Show interface f0/3.
We've got the input errors and CRC, so clear counters.
F0/3.
we don't see any input errors and CRCs.
Now obviously you need to monitor that
over a period of time.
So we are seeing a certain number
of packets in and a certain number of packets out.
So traffic is definitely being sent
and received under this interface.
We are not seeing any input errors
which is better than what we saw last time,
but you just need to monitor that for a period of time.
On the router, show interface f0,
we see the number of packets input,
number of packets output.
We have no late collisions at the moment.
So that's a lot better than what we saw previously.
Now on this switch, we still seeing another problem
with a duplex mismatch to switch two.
So this connection here has a duplex problem.